# Digital Literacy Predicts Accuracy Judgments in Misinformation

# Abtract 
  This project is a replication for "[Digital literacy is associated with more discerning accuracy judgments but not sharing intentions](https://misinforeview.hks.harvard.edu/article/digital-literacy-is-associated-with-more-discerning-accuracy-judgments-but-not-sharing-intentions/)". Through two survey experiments with a sample of 1,341 U.S. respondents, Sirlinet al. (2021) find that digital literacy is positively associated with misinformation discernment, but not with sharing intention. I performed Ordinary Least-squares regression analyses to replicate their research, and my results show consistency with their findings. In addition, the results show that age is negatively associated with digital literacy. 
  
# Introduction 
Misinformation has been exacerbating the public trust in political and societal institutions. It is widely assumed that a lack of digital literacy - an individual's ability to fluently use digital technology to assess the veracity of information, may lead to higher susceptibility to fake news and misinformation. Sirlinet al. (2021)'s study is one of the most recent works on investigating the role of digital literacy, which they refer to as familiarity with concepts and knowledge relative to online information in social media, in misinformation susceptibility and acceptance. They find that digital literacy is positively associated with more discerning truth from false content, but it doesn’t predict whether an individual is more or less likely to share misinformation on social media. 

I performed Ordinary Least-squares regression analyses to replicate their research using R and R packages. The replication is structured as follows: (1) Investigating the relationships between variables in the dataset. (2) Building a regression model to fit the data. (3) Analyze the results generated by the model. 

# Method 
Sirlinet al. (2021) conducted two surveys in late 2020, a sample of 1,341 American social media users (N = 1,341) were recruited for the study. In the survey experiments, research participants were shown a set of true and false news posts about politics or COVID-19 taken from social media. Participants were randomly assigned to two groups: (1) They were asked to assess the accuracy of each headline. (2) They were asked to indicate their likelihood of sharing each headline in social media, and completed two measures of digital literacy along with analytic thinking, procedural news knowledge, partisanship, and demographic information.

# Results 
In the regression model where accuracy discernment is the dependent variable, the variables of Cognitive Reflection Test, Procedural News Knowledge, Age, Gender, Ideology are statistically significant at the level of .01, suggesting that the model itself is robust in predicting accuracy discernment in misinformation.
The other model, which examines the relationship between sharing discernment and other variables, shows that Age and Ideology are two critical variables to predict sharing discernment. Age is positively associated with sharing behaviors (p<.01); political ideology is negatively associated with sharing behaviors, which suggests that the more liberal an individual is, the less likely he or she shares misinformation (l< .05). 

# Discussion and conclusion 
Overall the replication lends empirical support to the original study. The "Accuracy Discernment" model well predicts participants’ ability to discern authentic headlines from false headlines, holding other variables constant. Digital literacy is positively associated with the increase of truth discernment, which suggests that increasing digital education could potentially increase social media users' ability to recognize accurate information. Additionally, the research results also show that age is negatively associated with digital literacy. This implies that older people may face more information obstacles to access quality information, therefore, they are more likely to fall far misinformation. News knowledge is also positively associated with digital literacy, suggesting that the more news knowledge an individual gains, the more likely he or she has higher levels of digital knowledge and hence is better at discerning truth from falsehoods. 

The results also show that digital literacy does not predict sharing discernment. This finding is consistent with the original study. The "Sharing Discernment" model provides support for this finding as only age and political ideology are associated with sharing behaviors, while digital literacy is not a factor predicting misinformation sharing behaviors. 